hi guys it's Ken with this week's news
refresh the NHTSA has been trying to get
back on their feet after the public and
Congress shamed them for their poor
handling of the GM ignition switch and
the Takata airbag recalls that's all
behind them though and now the newly
energized NHTSA is looking for a new
whipping boy so are they going to go
after GM for their headline dominating
recalls or will they be putting their
foot down on Honda for not reporting
airbag injuries to them nope and nope
they're actually doling out their
biggest punishments to Fiat Chrysler so
why is the NHTSA going after Chrysler so
hard well it's because of what they
refer to as a litany of failures in the
way that they've been dealing with
millions of recalls including a ton of
older jeeps now that's some harsh
language but what is the NHTSA actually
doing about it well for starters they
slam the FCA with the biggest fine in
history the biggest fine ever the
company will be facing penalties that
reach a staggering 105 million dollars
that's right Chrysler's getting fined as
much as the ticket Honda an GM we're hit
with combined and it doesn't stop there
either the NHTSA is pulling out one of
their rarely used powers to give the FCA
the ultimate bitch slap the feds will be
forcing FCA to buy back certain Ram
trucks and dodge SUVs from the 2008 to
2012 model years and this comes after
Fiat Chrysler failed to fix the steering
issues with the ram trucks three times
so now the government is just making
Chrysler take them back completely
experts estimate that this could easily
run them up to 2.5 billion dollars in
buyback costs for jeep owners if you
have it 93 207 grand cherokee r liberty
they'll be offering you cash to bring in
your vehicle for repairs this can range
from a hundred dollar gift card just for
bringing in or they'll give you over a
thousand dollars more than the current
value of the car on any training to
complete Chrysler's disgrace the NHTSA
is making them pay for a babysitter over
the next three years I'm serious here
they're actually making them pay for an
independent monitor that will be
reporting back to NHTSA about all the
progress FCA is making
are recalls how embarrassing is that so
is all this picking on chrysler
justified the big issue with the Jeep
line is that the gas tanks can cause the
vehicle to catch on fire and well that
certainly seems like a big issue to me
so why does Chrysler say the government
is unfairly singling them out FCA says
that their vehicles met all the federal
safety standards at the time that they
were produced they also say their jeeps
aren't any more likely to catch fire
than other contemporary vehicles but
what do you guys think are you glad the
NHTSA is putting their foot down or at
ages going too hard after one company
you can let us know what you think about
that in the comments below also we have
all the details on the vehicles getting
recalled in the description below so be
sure to check that out if you think you
might be affected maybe your vehicle is
going to blow up you need to figure it
out don't forget to subscribe if you
want to keep up with our weekly 4 by 4
news show I'm Ken and you've just been
refreshed